'''aerocement''' is lightweight foamed concrete with alkali-resistant fiber, mixable with a drill and a bucket.

AR-GFRC aerocement: open-source foamed concrete targeting >=3 MPa compressive / >=1.5 MPa flexural at <=1000 kg/m3, load-matched to single-story walls. Failures are documented on purpose.

== Status ==
Development stage: '''prototype'''. This project documents failures and open errors publicly, on purpose (falsification-first).

== What is validated vs. what is theoretical ==
''Validated by experiment or established materials science:''
* Fiber content must stay <=1.5% to avoid foam collapse
* E-glass degrades in alkali; use zirconia (AR) or basalt fiber
* Low elastic modulus: suspended spans are impractical

''Targets not yet physically validated -- do not cite as results:''
* >=3 MPa compressive at <=1000 kg/m3 (target, not yet measured)
* >=1.5 MPa flexural at <=1000 kg/m3 (target, not yet measured)

== Known errors (open) ==
* '''H-003 radiative-capture headline overstated \~10x (likely decimal/units error)''' -- The published H-003 thermal cascade headline figure for radiative capture appears inflated by roughly one order of magnitude due to a decimal or units slip. The physically realistic ceiling is far lower.

== Build one ==
# Read the bill of materials: https://github.com/jesseray718/aerocement/blob/main/BOM.md
# Mix a 1-liter test batch and record your ratios.
# Post a photo and your ratios in the project's GitHub Discussions -- an independent test batch is the single most valuable contribution right now.

== Safety ==
Cement is caustic: wear gloves and eye protection. Cut glass fiber irritates skin and lungs: wear a mask when handling dry fiber. Test batches only; no structural use until independently validated.

== Licensing ==
* Hardware designs: CC-BY-SA-4.0
* Documentation: CC-BY-SA-4.0
* Software: GPL-3.0-or-later
Copyright is attributed to "One Human Family". Zero patents; the design is born free.

== Links ==
* Source repository: https://github.com/jesseray718/aerocement
* Archived record (DOI): https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.20639511

[[Category:Appropriate technology]]
[[Category:Construction]]
[[Category:Building materials]]
[[Category:Open source hardware]]
